1. commuicate results to different stakeholders using storytelling
2. structure a written report
3. build a compelling oral presentation

impacting decision-making process

making the story stick
1. simple
2. concrete
3. credible


story->tech or non tech->data->viz->present

the best results have no impact without proper presentation

data storytelling is the practice of building a narrative around a set of data and its accompanying visualization to help convey the meaning of that data in a powerful and compelling fusion.

anecdotes = imagination
stories = memorable
add value = context

capture audiences attention
facilitate decision-making

data storytelling

3-minute

1. insightful
2. explanatory
3. concise


apply only findings that apply to the situation
actionable insights, data that drives action
compelling and easy to understand
prioritizing essential points
centralized insight
understand background and audience
clarify facts to that audience
helps focus attention
meaning and context
helps retain insights
better-informed decision-making
determine how technical your audience is
audiences care about results and implications

low accuracy predictions to supply chain agents
1. don't care about stats
2. care about their own pain points

translating technical results into stories
1. easy to understand
2. engage audience
3. decision-making
4. drive change
5. strategies


awareness
1. what do they know?  how our model works
2. adjust content.  Prediction's impact and limitations

what do they need to understand?  Why we chose our predictive variables

be conversational.  The context on which our model works

what information do they need?
it is easier to explain the interactions between customer traits

ADEPT
1. Analogy
2. Diagram
3. Example
4. Plain English
5. Technical definition

use acronyms with caution
1. can help or hurt communication
2. introduce the term and acronym

jargon
1. translate terminology
2. simple terms
3. guide
4. definitions

focus on impact
focus on benefits

Humulity
1. be receptive
2. proactively ensure understanding
3. explain differently

Narrative Structure
1. What motivated the analysis
2. What changed
3. Who is the focus of the analysis?
a. customers
b. employees
c. something else

only relevant information -  don't overwhelm the audience

add supportive evidence if it helps to explain the cause of the problem
all evidence should build towards the climax, the central insight

provide potential solutions, give a course of action, and be proactive

show how things change over time, the time sensitive patterns

correlation (how one features is influenced by another)

comparision (how one features measures against another feature)

clustering (how two features are arranged by grouping dispersion)

the right data
1. selecting the right data implies including enough contextual insights in a story to better support the main point without overloading with information.
a.  Minimal amount of information to support our story

selecting the right data and communicating data
1. identify personas
2. select findings and statistics
3. select a visualization
4. choose a format

selecting the right data implies including enough contextual insights in a story to better support the main point without overloading with information
1. include the minimal amount of information to support the story

data:
a. garbage in, garbage out
b. adapt to the audience

project manager
1. interest: project aligns with company objectives
2. right data: summary data :$2 m cost of marketing campaign
3. metrics: 10% monthly increase in number of customers
4. 2% risk of decline


Tech team
project collaborator or technical supervisor
knowledge: expert (technical aspects)
interest: replicate project

audience skepticism
1. different levels of skepticism
2. different levels
a. convince yourself
b. convince a friend
c. convince a skeptic


variations of data
absolute: difference between 2018 and 2017 sales
a. absolute change and relative change depend on the quantity
relative: percentage variation 2018 from 2017
a. small numbers more significant than reality

using absolute or relative change depends on the question you want to answer


ratio
quotient of two variables
1. revenue per customer (total product revenue/number of customers)

aggregates
representative values
totals/counts
mean
median

the mean can be misleading if there are outliers

2019 US average salary was 51916.27
2019 US median salary was 34248.45

what is p-value
1. value less than 0.05 is statistically significant
2. value close to 0.05 is a weak indicator

p-value is not a proof of evidence
a. reject our hypothesis, but not that is false

consider alternatives or complementary metrics


the visualization needs to adjust to the message we want to communicate
1. audience expertise
2. familiarity with the topics

how well did our model perform on historical data

Investor
1. influence (buy or not buy)

Technical lead
1. the feature importance

pareto principle
1. aggregate less relevant data
2. less is more


McCandless Method
1. introduce visualization by name
a. Graph Headline
b. clear and obvious
c. y vs x technique
2. anticipate audience questions
a. focus on story not on decoding graph
3. state insights
4. help the audience relate to the graph and its insights
a. importance
b. action items


present the information

which format is more effective? written reports or oral presentations

Stakeholders:
1. who
2. why
a. accountability
b. methodology
3. how
a. make decisions
b. start new project

Content: results? conclusions? recommendations? and methods?


format
1. document
2. slide deck

delivery mechanism
1. live
2. asynchronous

audience
1. conference room

oral communication
advantages: relationship with the audience, immediate feedback, and non-verbal cues
disadvantages: no permanent record of communication, not suitable for long messages


written communication
advantages: permanent record of communication, shared easily with a large audience, less emotional reaction to message, suitable to share code with collegues
disadvantages: hard to see if the message was understood, no immediate feedback

choosing the appropriate format
1. audience
2. content
3. requirements
4. channel
-> presentation format

who are we presenting too
stakeholders: who? why? accountability and methodology how? make decisions and start new project what?

content: should we focus on results, conclusions, or recommendations

requirements
1. time
2. who do they report too? authority to backup a claim
3. time zone
4. how will our presentation be consumed
5. format: document or slide deck
6. delivery mechanism
a. live
b. asynchronous and get questions later
7. how big will our audience be
a. conference room
b. ball room


Types of reports
1. how to write precise and clear reports
2. informational: they provide factural information, short, not strict structure, inform about facts
3. analysis: (relationships and recommendations), varies (short or long), strict structure, data-driven decisions
4. final: data analysis. findings and results, visuals.  for audiences that need technical details.
5. summary: key findings and information and visuals. usually less than 5 pages

Written reports
1. explain data analysis project
a. sentiment analysis on product reviews

2. communicate findings
a. 30% negatie ratings for delayed shipping
b. predict ratings with 90% accuracy

3. standards

4. give recommendations to drive changes

Report structure
1. introduction: explain the purpose of the report
2. contextual information:  why we performed the analysis shown?  what motivated our analysis?
3. summarize our analysis questions: what factors are driving the bad user experience
4. body of the report, data and description and tables, methods (nlp and random forest), analysis (visuals and graphs of most common words), results (description and visuals - 30% negative ratings associated with words delayed and shipping)
a. data
b. methods
c. analysis
d. results
5. conclusions: restate the question.


business context
1-3-25
a. 1 page of abstract
b. 3 pages of executive summary
c. 25 pages of details


Reproducibility example
1. baking a cake
a. recipe
b. raw ingredients
c. our oven and kitchen measuring gadgets
d. cake with similar flavor

data project
a. different environment but similar results

reproducibility and replicability virtues
1. prevents duplication effort
2. build upon preexisting work
3. focus on new challenges
4. peer review
5. tool agnostic

best practices
1. keep track of how results were produced
	a. well document scripts
	b. list packages and environment used
2. avoid manual data manipulation
	a. data versioning
	b. store raw data and intermediate steps
	c. adapt and resolve problems
	d. impute missing values with the mean
	e. save and close editor
3. control randomness
	a. random seeds for ml pipelines
	b. controls confounding variables
4. interpretability
	a. understand the cause of a decision or predict model results
	b. story with compelling narrativde
	c. link with reproducibility
5. cite bibliography correctly
	a. site and locate a specific publication
	b. apa - in text citations (author, date)


write precise and clear reports
1. concise
2. precise
3. avoid misleading and confusion
4. meaningful message

avoid empty phrases
1. it is interesting to note that
2. the fact that
3. it should be pointed out that
4. it is well known that
5. it is obvious that

write concrete nouns
1. avoid this, that, it because it adds cognitive load
	a. distract users from the main insights

active voice puts the emphasis on the author
the passive voice is stuffy and hard to read
academic vs business context

redundant adjectives and adverbs
1. phrases that say the same thing twice
2. introduce a new
3. done previously
4. eliminate redundant adjective and adverbs

run on sentences are two or more independent clauses connected incorrectly
1. make them two sentences
2. use dependent clauses like because or also


how to write a report on credit risk case
1. credit risk is the probability of defaulting
2. loanme bank wants to predict if a customer is likely to default
3. raw data available
4. data exploration analysis
5. model training and evaluation

Story
increase in defaulting percentage over last 5 years.  predicting which customers had a high probability of default.

insight: people with more unemployment periods tends to default more
insight: people with lower income tend to default more
climax: possible to predict which people is more likely to default with an accuracy of 95%
next steps: run a trial on a control population

Role: financing department director
interest: decision on implementing an automated loan rejection system
appropriate data:
1. relationship between unemployment or income and loan default
2. percentage customer defaulting over the next months

statisics
1. median age and income
2. percentage of change
3. boxplot with age vs default condition
4. lineplot with % change default customers

summary report struction
1. Introduction
	a. purpose
	b. contextual information
	c. question of analysis
2. Body
	a. Data
	b. Results: Key Findings

3. Conclusions
	a. Restate question
	b. Central insight
	c. Add recommendations


oral presentation
1. plan and build presentation slides
2. avoid common mistakes
3. present effectively


presentation structure:
1. purpose
	a. informative
	b. instructional
	c. persuasive
2. audience
	a. technical collegues
	b. size of audience (meeting or conference)
	c. workshop
3. message
	a. after one week 90% of the content is forgotten
	b. what do we want to stick
	c. capture the audience attention
	d. what is the central message.  one sentence
	e. closing statement: sums up presentation and strengthens the central message


structure
1. introduction
	a. provide background information
	b. catch audience attention
	c. glimpse of presentation content
2. methods, analysis, and model outputs
3. conclusions and takeaways
	a. refers back to the introduction
	b. contains a call to action statement or and next steps

outline
	1. graphs and visuals
	2. sections (five or less smaller parts)
		a. reason for analysis
		b. exploratory analysis
		c. sentiment analysis
		d. conclusions


from planning to building
	1. support story
	2. refined slides
	3. slide count or timing = bad metric
	4. one message per slide

color
	1. convey meaning
	2. readibilty
	3. no more than 3 colors
	4. good contrast between words and background

fonts
	serif - for text to be print
	san serif for text on a screen

Text Slide
	1. less text: too much text can have a negative impact
	2. headline: the audience tends to read the slide instead of listening
	3. write the main points
	4. we should purpose our slides into written reports
	5. headlines help the audience to pay attention to that point in time
		a. highlight the main point of the slide
		b. be specific and concise
	6. layering approach
		a. breaks complex slide into smaller points
		b. each point stands on its own
		c. displayed together


	when we have to much text we should think of it being replaced with a graph


Delivery of presentation

Practice

a. use the script as a guide to help discuss insights and reasoning
b. don't memorize
c. the more we practice the more familiar we become with content
d. anticipate followup questions
e. rehearsal means standing up, using the slides, and speaking out loud
f. detect distracting patterns (um, so like, basically, actually)
g. find linking statements
h. be aware of emotions (confident or unsure)
i. deliver the presentation (short attention span)
j. talk to the audience not at them.
k. we are developing a relationship with our audience
l. timing: use the allocated time
m. open up for questions

avoid common errors
a. tonalities: speed, volume, and intonation















	
	
	
	
	







	




































































































